.TH GNUNET-TRACEKIT "1" "23 Dec 2006" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-tracekit \-\- overlay network traceing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-tracekit
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gnunet\-tracekit can be used to visualize the GNUnet overlay network.  This tool broadcasts a message into the network querying every peer about a list of other connected peers. The result is then printed to the screen.
.PP
gnunet\-tracekit is primarily useful for developers to determine the structure of the network.  End\-users will find little use for the tool itself (except to satisfy their curiosity) but should at the moment still enable this protocol to help the developers that trace the network.
.PP

.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=\fIFILENAME\fR
load config file (defaults: ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf)

.TP
\fB\-D \fIDEPTH\fR, \fB\-\-depth=\fIDEPTH\fR
until which depth should the network be traced (how many hops)

.TP
\fB\-F \fIFORMAT\fR, \fB\-\-format=\fIFORMAT\fR
specifies the output format, 0 is human readable, 1 is dot, 2 is vcg

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page

.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=\fILOGLEVEL\fR
Change the loglevel.  Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, STATUS and DEBUG.  Note that options in the 
configuration file take precedence over this option (the argument 
will be ignored in that case).

\fB\-P \fIPRIORITY\fR, \fB\-\-priority=\fIPRIORITY\fR
what should the priority of the probe be
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number

\fB\-W \fIWAIT\fR, \fB\-\-wait=\fIWAIT\fR
set how many seconds to wait for replies

.SH NOTES
gnunet\-tracekit may not be supported by all GNUnet peers.  Peers that do not support tracekit will still be discovered and will be marked in the output as non-responding peers.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
Users GNUnet configuration file
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet\-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
