.TH GNUNET-UNINDEX "1" "23 Dec 2006" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-unindex \- a command line interface for deleting indexed files from GNUnet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-unindex
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] FILENAME
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gnunet\-unindex is used for deleting indexed files from GNUnet.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=FILENAME\fR
use config file (defaults: ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-H \fIHOSTNAME\fR, \fB\-\-host=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
on which host is gnunetd running (default: localhost).  You can also specify a port using the syntax HOSTNAME:PORT.  The default port is 2087.
.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=LOGLEVEL\fR
Change the loglevel.  Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, STATUS and DEBUG.  Note that options in the 
configuration file take precedence over this option (the argument 
will be ignored in that case).

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
be verbose
.SH NOTES
You can only unindex files that you indexed and that you still have available locally in full.  You should use gnunet\-unindex on files that you indexed (not inserted) and that you are going to delete or move locally.
.TP
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
GNUnet configuration file
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet\-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet\-gtk\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-insert\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-gtk\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-search\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-download\fP(1), \fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
