.TH GNUNET-SEARCH "1" "11 Sep 2006" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-search \- a command line interface to search for content on GNUnet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-search
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] KEYWORD [AND KEYWORD]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Search for content on GNUnet. The keywords are case-sensitive.  gnunet\-search can be used both for a search in the global namespace as well as for searching a private subspace.
.TP
\fB\-a \fILEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-anonymity=LEVEL\fR
The \fB-a\fR option can be used to specify additional anonymity constraints.  If set to 0, GNUnet will try to download the file as fast as possible without any additional slowdown for anonymous routing.  Note that you may still have some amount of anonymity depending on the current network load and the power of the adversary.  Use at least 1 to force GNUnet to use anonymous routing.

This option can be used to limit requests further than that. In particular, you can require GNUnet to have a certain amount of cover traffic from other peers before sending your queries. This way, you can gain very high levels of anonymity \- at the expense of much more traffic and much higher latency. So set this option to values beyond 1 only if you really believe you need it.

The definition of ANONYMITY-RECEIVE is the following: If the value v is 0, anonymous routing is not required.  For 1, anonymous routing is required, but there is no lower bound on how much cover traffic must be present.  For values > 1 and < 1000, it means that if GNUnet routes n bytes of messages from foreign peers, it may originate n/v bytes of queries in the same time\-period. The time\-period is twice the average delay that GNUnet deferrs forwarded queries. If the value v is >= 1000, it means that if GNUnet routes n bytes of QUERIES from at least (v % 1000) peers, it may originate n/v/1000 bytes of queries in the same time\-period.

The default is 1 and this should be fine for most users.  Also notice that if you choose values above 1000, you may end up having no throughput at all, especially if many of your fellow GNUnet\-peers do the same.

.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=FILENAME\fR
use config file (defaults: ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-H \fIHOSTNAME\fR, \fB\-\-host=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
on which host is gnunetd running (default: localhost).  You can also specify a port using the syntax HOSTNAME:PORT.  The default port is 2087.
.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=LOGLEVEL\fR
Change the loglevel.  Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, STATUS and DEBUG.  Note that options in the 
configuration file take precedence over this option (the argument 
will be ignored in that case).
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIMAXRESULTS\fR
exit after finding MAXRESULTS results.
.TP
\fB\-o PREFIX, \fB\-\-output=PREFIX\fR
Writes the encountered (unencrypted) RBlocks or SBlocks to files with name PREFIX.XXX, where XXX is a number. This is useful to keep search results around.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fITIMEOUT\fR
The \-t option specifies that the query should timeout after approximately TIMEOUT seconds.  A value of zero is interpreted as never.  The default value can be changed via the SEARCHTIMEOUT variable in the GNUnet configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.SH NOTES

You can run gnunet\-search with an URI instead of a keyword.  The URI can have the format for a namespace search or for a keyword search.  For a namespace search, the format is gnunet://ecrs/sks/NAMESPACE/IDENTIFIER.  For a keyword search, use gnunet://ecrs/ksk/KEYWORD[+KEYWORD]*.  If the format does not correspond to a GNUnet URI, GNUnet will automatically assume that keywords are supplied directly.  If multiple words are passed as keywords that are not separated by an AND, gnunet-search will concatenate them to one bigger keyword.  Thus

# gnunet\-search Das Kapital

and

# gnunet\-search "Das Kapital"

are identical. You can use AND to separate keywords. In that case, gnunet\-search will only display results that match all the keywords.  gnunet\-search cannot do multiple independent queries ("OR"), you must use multiple processes for that.
Search results are printed by gnunet\-search like this:

.P
	gnunet\-download \-o "COPYING" gnunet://ecrs/chk/HASH1.HASH2.SIZE

		Description: The GNU Public License

		Mime-type: text/plain

The first line contains the command to run to download the file.  The suggested filename in the example is COPYING.  The GNUnet URI consists of the key and query hash of the file and finally the size of the file.  After the command to download the file GNUnet will print meta\-data about the file as advertised in the search result, here "The GNU Public License" and the mime\-type (see the options for gnunet\-insert on how to supply meta-data by hand).

.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
GNUnet configuration file; specifies the default value for the timeout
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet\-gtk\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-insert\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-download\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-pseudonym\fP(1), \fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
