.TH GNUNET-UPDATE "1" "23 Dec 2006" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet-update \- a tool to update GNUnet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-update
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gnunet-update updates gnunets databases after software updates
that change the database format.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=FILENAME\fR
load config file (default: /etc/gnunet.conf)
.TP
\fB\-g \fISECTION:ENTRY\fR, \fB\-\-get=SECTION:ENTRY\fR
print the value from the configuration in section SECTION under entry ENTRY.  Use :ENTRY to access the global section.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=LOGLEVEL\fR
Change the loglevel.  Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, STATUS and DEBUG.  Note that options in the 
configuration file take precedence over this option (the argument 
will be ignored in that case).
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-client\fR
run in client mode (required to get values from the client configuration).  This option must be used only together with the \-g option.
.TP
\fB\-u \fIUSER\fR, \fB\-\-user=USER\fR
run as user USER (and if available as group USER). Note that to use this option, you will probably have to start gnunet-update as
root. It is typically better to directly start gnunet-update as that user instead.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose.
.SH NOTES
gnunet-update was introduced in version 0.6.3.  Updates from
much earlier versions may not be handled properly by the tool.
Always consult the UPDATING file in the GNUnet distribution
for the necessary update procedure.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
GNUnet configuration file
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunetd\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-peer\-info\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-transport\-check\fP(1), \fBgnunet.conf\fP(5)
