.TH GNUNET-SETUP "1" "8 Dec 2007" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-setup \- configuring GNUnet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-setup
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] MODE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gnunet\-setup can be used to generate and edit the configuration files (gnunetd.conf and gnunet.conf) for GNUnet.  gnunet\-setup runs in two basic modes, one for editing gnunet.conf and one for editing gnunetd.conf.  Depending on which libraries were available when gnunet\-setup was build, gnunet\-setup will have a curses or GTK user interface.  A text\-only interface is always available.  For a quick initial configuration gnunet\-setup offers a wizard (GTK only) that can be used to quickly generate a working gnunetd.conf file.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=FILENAME\fR
specify location of the configuration file (default: /etc/gnunetd.conf or ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf, depending on the mode)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-daemon\fR
generate configuration for gnunetd (gnunetd.conf).  If run without this option, gnunet\-setup will generate a configuration for GNUnet clients.
.TP
\fB\-g \fISECTION:OPTION\fR, \fB\-\-get=\fISECTION:OPTION\fR
display the value of the given OPTION from the given SECTION in the configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-s \fISECTION:OPTION=VALUE\fR, \fB\-\-set=\fISECTION:OPTION=VALUE\fR
set the value of the given OPTION from the given SECTION to the specified VALUE.  If this change implies other options also changing, perform those changes as well.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.TP
.SH NOTES
Before you can use any GNUnet application you must run gnunet\-setup to generate the configuration.  First, run gnunet\-setup with the \-d option to generate a configuration for gnunetd.  Later, each user of the system should run gnunet\-setup without \-d to generate his personal configuration.
.TP
Depending on your system, gnunet\-setup will have a subset of the following modes: config (text), menuconfig (curses), gconfig (GTK), and wizard\-gtk (GTK wizard).  The wizards can currently only be used in conjunction with the \-d option to configure gnunetd.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/gnunetd.conf
gnunetd configuration file (default location).
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
client configuration file (default location).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunetd\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-update\fP(1), \fBgnunetd.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunet.conf\fP(5)
