.TH GNUNET-TBENCH "1" "23 Dec 2006" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-tbench \- transport profiling tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-tbench
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gnunet\-tbench can be used to test the performance of the GNUnet
core (link\-to\-link encryption and the available transport services).
gnunet-tbench is useless to most ordinary users since its primary
function is to test the performance and correctness
of GNUnet transport service implementations.
.PP
gnunet\-tbench sends a sequence of messages to another peer that
has the tbench module loaded. The service then measures the
throughput, latency and loss of the messages round-trip.
gnunet\-tbench can only be used to test a direct peer\-to\-peer
connection. You must load the \fItbench\fR module (via
the configuration gnunetd.conf, section GNUNETD under APPLICATIONS)
in each of the two peers before gnunet\-tbench can be used.
.PP
The two peers must know of each other and be connected (use
gnunet\-stats to test for connections). Typically, gnunet\-tbench
reports the time it took to sent all specified messages and the
percentage of messages lost.
.PP

.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=\fIFILENAME\fR
load config file (defaults: ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf)

.TP
\fB\-g \-\-gnuplot
create output in two colums suitable for gnuplot.
When using this option, concatenate the output of multiple
runs with various options into a file 'tbench' and run
the following gnuplot script to visualize the time/loss
ratio:
.TP
set xlabel "time"
set ylabel "percent transmitted"
plot "tbench" title 'Transport benchmarking' with points

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page

.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=\fILOGLEVEL\fR
Change the loglevel.  Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, STATUS and DEBUG.  Note that options in the 
configuration file take precedence over this option (the argument 
will be ignored in that case).

.TP
\fB\-i\fI ITER \fB\-\-iterations=\fIITER\fR
perform ITER iterations of the benchmark

.TP
\fB\-n\fI MESSAGES\fR, \fB\-\-msg=\fIMESSAGES\fR
how many messages should be used in each iteration (used to
compute average, min, max, etc.)

.TP
\fb\-r \fIRECEIVER\fR, \fB\-\-rec=\fIRECEIVER\fR
use this option to specify the identity of the
RECEIVER peer that is used for the benchmark. This option is required.

.TP
\fB\-s\fI SIZE \fB\-\-size=\fISIZE\fR
test using the specified message size

.TP
\fB\-S\fI SPACE \fB\-\-space=\fSPACE\fR
use SPACE milli\-seconds of delays between trains of messages

.TP
\fB\-t\fI TIMEOUT \fB\-\-timeout=\fTIMEOUT\fR
wait TIMEOUT milli\-seconds for replies to arrive before aborting

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number

.TP
\fB\-X\fI COUNT \fB\-\-xspace=\fCOUNT\fR
use trains of COUNT messages

.SH NOTES
gnunet\-tbench can run for a long time, depending on
how high you have set the numbers. Run first with small numbers
to get an initial estimate on the runtime.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
Users GNUnet configuration file
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <https://gnunet.org/mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet\-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
