\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-

@setfilename manual.info
@settitle GNUnet manual

@titlepage
@title GNUnet
@subtitle  GNU's decentralized P2P framework
@author by Nils Durner
@end titlepage

@contents

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@node Scope of this document
@section Scope of this document
This document is targeted towards end users who want to better understand what
GNUnet is about, how it works and how to use it. GNUnet's technical background
is only discussed briefly as the corresponding scientific papers
@footnote{@uref {http://www.gnunet.org/papers.php3}} already cover
these information. Additionally, practical tips are given on how to use GNUnet's
tools in an efficient and secure manner.

If one of your questions is not answered in this book, do not hesitate to
contact the GNUnet developers or ask the GNUnet community for help. @xref {Contact}

@node What is GNUnet@?
@section What is GNUnet@?
GNUnet can be summarized as ``software for secure Peer-to-Peer networking''.
In this case, the term ``secure'' implies that:
@itemize
	@item Nobody on the network knows who you are (``anonymity'').@*The main goal
	of GNUnet is to obscure the source of requests and actual content. For example,
	nobody should be able to tell that you are the person who published a certain
	document.
	@item Nobody knows what you do (``confidentiality'').@*Neither outsiders nor
	participants in the network should be able to tell in what kind of activities
	you and your node are involved.
	@item Nobody can prove that you know anything (``deniability'').@*Some actions in
	anonymous
	P2P systems require other peers to act upon behalf of another peer. None of the
	involved peers knows what a particular action (searching, publishing) is
	exactly about. That way, there is not need (and no possibility, see the next point)
	to employ filters. Also, it should be hard to prove you searched for or published
	particular content yourself.
	@item Nobody is able to suppress information on the net
	(``censorship-resistance'').@*Both filtering and censoring should be impossible
	for attackers from the outside as well as malicious peers inside of GNUnet.
	@item Nobody can destabilize the network (achieved through
	``accounting'').@*It should not be possible to overload the network by flooding
	the net with requests or content. Also, freeloading
	@footnote{Retrieving content in large quantities without contributing to
	the network} is dealt with.
	@item No participant can pretend to be another (through authentication)@*
	To be able to do accounting and guard against well-known attacks, all message
	exchanges in GNUnet are authenticated. Of course, this is done in a way that
	does not impair anonymity.
@end itemize
Other features of GNUnet include:
@itemize
  @item Open and constant development@*GNUnet is @dfn{Free Open Source Software},
  which means that
  any software engineer, computer scientist or hobbyist is able to verify what
  GNUnet really does. New additions or modifications are instantly and
  automatically sent via email to dozens of interested people around the world who
  follow the development of GNUnet. This ensures that there is no way to sneak
  undesirable or malicous functionality in.@*
  Additionally, the way GNUnet achieves the goals mentioned above is described
  in a number of peer-reviewed@footnote{Reviewed by other scientists
  and security experts} scientific
  papers@footnote{@uref {http://www.gnunet.org/papers.php3}}. This
  enables people to audit the design of GNUnet without looking at the actual
  code.@*
  Finally, the GNUnet developers are always open to discussion and suggestions.
  Several new features have been discussed in the public on mailing lists, IRC or
  GNUnet's community page. The team also believes in the concept of an open
  and honest information policy regarding security problems (``full-disclosure'').
  @item Decentralized operation@*
  The only central resources GNUnet uses are the hostlist servers. These servers
  provide GNUnet peers with information on how to connect to other network
  participants in order to join the network. Inside the network, there are no
  central trusted authorities (like index servers for searching, for example).
  Thus, the network as whole cannot be disrupted by failure of a central
  service. Also, central services are problematic in terms of GNUnet's design
  goals regarding censorship-resistance, deniability, confidentiality and
  accountability.
  @item Optional F2F/''darknet'' operating mode@*
  The usually policy is to allow everybody to connect to the GNUnet. However, it
  is possible to run a private P2P network where only trusted participants are
  allowed to connect. This kind of network is also called ``Friend-to-Friend network''
  or occasionally ``Darknet''.
  @item Non-anonymous file transfers@*
  For each file, both the sender and the receiver can chose the level of desired
  anonymity. Because the degree of anonymity is a tradeoff between efficiency
  (ultimately measured in transfer speed) and security, they can also agree to
  transfer data in a non-anonymous fashion while still maintaining a secure
  connection (as defined above) for maximum speed.
  @item Next-generation filesharing@*
  GNUnet tools make filesharing more convenient through features like display of
  thumbnails in search results, search by meta data@footnote{e.g. author,
  title, camera type, @dots} and retrieval of complete directory structures.
  @item Layered software architecture@*
  Technically speaking, the GNUnet software is not a single program, but rather
  a @dfn{framework} that enables others to create new applications on top of the
  GNUnet core quite easily.@*
  Two examples for this are the projects @sc{gnunet-fuse} and @sc{gnunet-qt}.
  The former enables you to access content found on GNUnet in the same way as
  if it was stored on a DVD, the latter is a graphical user interface for GNUnet.
  Both projects were each written by an individual developer in a matter of weeks.
@end itemize

@node What is GNUnet not@?
@section What is GNUnet not?
The most important property of all current solutions that offer a very high
degree of anonymity is that you cannot exchange information @emph{fast}.
While some of the current performance problems may be due to yet undiscovered
software bugs or lack of optimization, other delays are by design. This means
that anonymous transfers will never be as fast as non-anonymous downloads via
Bittorrent@footnote{http://www.bittorrent.com}.

A limitation specific to GNUnet is that currently the only available application is
filesharing. Ideas for other services like anonymous chat or tunelling of
traditional services exist, but elaborate concepts or implementations do not.
In the meantime, users should use Tor@footnote{@uref{http://tor.eff.org}}
for everything else than anonymous filesharing.

@node Contact
@chapter Contact

The GNUnet community is a group of people spread throughout the world which
not only discusses new concepts and ideas but also kindly helps newcomers
and answers their questions.@*
There are different ways to get in touch with the community.

@node Forum, stories, blogs and polls
@section Forum, stories, blogs and polls
The web portal at @uref{http://gnunet.org/drupal/} is the main entry point
for discussion and news.

The forum is the right place for discussion, questions and answers. Some
community members including the GNUnet developers also share their knowledge,
latests findings and recent proceedings in form of stories and blogs. And as
the developers need constant feedback from their user base, polls provide an
effective way to let the developers know what should be improved next.

Everything related to GNUnet is welcome, as long as it is respectful and legal.

@node Mailinglists
@section Mailinglists
While email usually only works with known and named recipients, @dfn{mailinglists}
allow communication with large groups over email. There are four different mailinglists
that serve different purposes:
@itemize
	@item Developers, @email{gnunet-developers@@gnu.org}@*
	      This mailinglist is used by the GNUnet developers to exchange ideas about
	      the implementation. Also, contributions (preferably as context patch
	      @footnote{not the full file, just the difference between the orginial and
	      the modified version as produced by the @dfn{diff} command},
	      if applicable) should be sent here. Please do @emph{not} send several MBs,
	      talk to the developers first in this case!
	@item Users, @email{help-gnunet@@gnu.org}@*
	      help-gnunet is a mailinglist that is intended as a discussion forum for users,
	      such that they can help other users. Some developers are also subscribed to
	      this list. Please do not report bugs or request features on this list. Use
	      our bug tracker instead. @xref{Bugtracker}
	@item Announcements@*
	      This is a mailing list where only GNUnet developers can post announcements about
	      new releases of GNUnet and related software. All other mail will be discarded.
	      Users who want to receive such announcements have to sign up, see below.
	@item Diffs@*
	      All modifications made to GNUnet are instantly sent to this list, which is
	      only interesting for developers who want to be notified about changes of
	      GNUnet's source code. Other mail will be discarded.
@end itemize

To receive emails sent to these lists, one has to sign up for each list at the
following locations:
@*@uref{http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/gnunet-developers}
@*@uref{http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/help-gnunet}
@*@uref{http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/info-gnunet}
@*@uref{http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/gnunet-svn}
@*
These sites also contain an archive of old discussions and announcements. Except
the "Diffs" mailing list, all lists only carry low (if any) amounts of traffic.
Most of the discussion has moved to the community portal or chat (see below).

@node Chat
@section Chat
Various GNUnet people are also on the @dfn{Freenode IRC network@footnote{@uref{http://www.freenode.net/}}}
and meet in the channel #gnunet. Reaction is not always timely here, so patience
is sometimes required.

@node Bugtracker
@section Bugtracker
The bugtracker at @uref{http://gnunet.org/mantis/} stores all bug reports as well
as feature and change requests. Registration is required to submit new reports
or requests.
Submissions should be as detailed as possible.

@node Getting GNUnet
@chapter Getting GNUnet

@node Getting GNUnet - Overview
@section Overview

As GNUnet is @dfn{Free Open Source Software}, obtaining a copy is easy and free
of charge. Mostly depending on your hardware and your operating system, the
process of installing GNUnet onto your computer is more or less convenient.

The GNUnet software is generally available in three different forms: as binary
package, source or virtual appliance. Each of these forms has its advantages
and disadvantages which are detailed below.

@node Binary packages
@section Binary packages

A @dfn{binary} package is ready-to-run software which just has to be installed and
configured. This is the usual way of obtaining GNUnet. Some operating system
vendors include GNUnet in their distribution or make it
available for download. The installer for Microsoft Windows is an
exception, it is separately available from the GNUnet download
page@footnote{@uref{http://gnunet.org/download.php3}}.

The advantage of binary packages is that the process of installation and
configuration is usually quite convenient and optimized for the specific
operating system. A serious disadvantage is that binary packages are
often outdated, sometimes to the degree that the version shipped does
not connect to the current GNUnet network because of version conflicts.
For that reason, it is highly recommended to check the GNUnet homepage@footnote{@uref{http://gnunet.org}}
or the announcements@footnote{@uref{http://blog.gmane.org/gmane.network.gnunet.announce}}
for newer releases. If there is no (sufficiently new) binary package for your
operating system, it is a good idea to ask the vendor or the maintainer
of an existing package. Another way is to build GNUnet from source.
@xref{Source}.

@node Source
@section Source

@dfn{Source code} can be best described as "recipe" and "ingredients" of a
particular piece of software. Just as a cake is baked, source code
must be translated to machine code ("compiled") in order to get
actual software which can be executed. Compiling GNUnet from source is
usually not difficult, but it is certainly not as easy as installing a
binary package. @xref{Compiling}. The advantage over binary packages is that
it is always possible to get the newest version of GNUnet this way. This is
not only true for regular releases of GNUnet, users are also able to
download the development source code the instant changes are made by the
developers. @xref{SVN}.

@node Virtual appliance
@section Virtual appliance

@dfn{Virtual appliances} are complete software environments including an operating
system which run through virtualization software like QEMU@footnote{@uref{http://fabrice.bellard.free.fr/qemu/}}
or VMware@footnote{@uref{http://vmware.com/}}. Virtual appliances require no
installation on the host system and little additional configuration effort.
Also, software inside such a "virtual PC" is usually not able to access data
on the real PC, making it ideal for users who just want to try GNUnet.
However, the virtual appliance that is downloadable from the GNUnet homepage
also suffers from outdated binary packages.

@bye
